---
title: Register Summer and Fall 2021
date: 2021-05-24 00:00:00 -0500
expire_date: 2021-06-30 00:00:00 -0500
image: /uploads/KCC-students-on-Riverfront-Campus-Copy.jpg
news_image_alt: Add descriptive text for the post's image
article_lead: A short lead for the article
video_content: false
video_link: 'https://youtu.be/4d2LkGjg5bM'
press_release: false
---
Registration is under way for Kankakee Community College summer term and fall semester courses.<br><br>The college is returning to mostly in-person learning, while continuing to offer some classes in online and “hybrid” formats. Hybrid courses are partially in-person and partially online.<br><br>In-person courses are held at KCC’s River Road campus in Kankakee, Manufacturing and Industrial Technology Center in Kankakee, and the Iroquois County Satellite Center in Watseka. KCC offers more than 50 degree programs, including transfer and occupational choices. Options also exist for full- and part-time enrollment.&nbsp;<br><br>The college offers multiple start dates. Summer classes begin in May and June; and Fall classes begin in August, September and October.&nbsp;<br><br>New students can start by submitting an application online at apply.kcc.edu.<br><br>Registration for new students takes place during the Cav Day Orientation experience when the student meets with a KCC advisor.<br><br>Returning students can use the My KCC portal at my.kcc.edu and go to the “Self-Service” link to register. In addition, registration and advising appointments for returning students are available at [kcc.edu/student-resources/advising/](https://www.kcc.edu/student-resources/advising/){: target="_blank" rel="noopener"}.<br><br>All students are encouraged to register early for the best selection of classes.&nbsp;<br><br>College offices will be closed most Fridays until July 30. The college also is closed May 31 and July 5 for holidays.<br><br>KCC’s Riverfront Campus is south of downtown Kankakee on River Road off U.S. 45 52, or take Interstate 57 to Exit 308 and follow the signs.<br><br>Students also can register and meet with advisers at the KCC South Extension Center, 1488 E. Walnut St. in Watseka, next to the Watseka Riverside Medical Center facility. Extension center advising hours are Tuesday and Thursday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. and other times by appointment. The phone number is 815-432-4670.<br><br>For further information, make a request at register.kcc.edu or phone 815-802-8500.<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;

**Sidebar: New for Fall 2021**<br>Health Careers Honors Program<br>Qualified students can enroll in a “fast track” semester of general education courses at the KCC North Extension Center. Students who complete every class in the general education semester with a C or better grade receive guaranteed entry into a KCC Health Career Program. Information: healthhonors.kcc.edu&nbsp;

Black Studies Pathway Program<br>A cohort of students takes two classes at a time, which meet in person two days per week. Every class includes elements of Black studies. After two years, students complete a transfer degree which is accepted at more than 100 colleges and universities. Students of all ethnicities are welcome in the program. Information: blackstudies.kcc.edu.

American Sign Language classes<br>KCC will offer American Sign Language I for the first time in Fall 2021. The class is one of five ASL classes being introduced at KCC. It is designed for those with little or no experience in American Sign Language. Other classes which will be offered in the future are American Sign Language II, American Sign Language III, American Sign Language IV, ASL Linguistics and Grammar, Fingerspelling and Numbers, and Introduction to Deaf Culture. Information: Sherry Kinzler, [skinzler@kcc.edu](mailto:skinzler@kcc.edu).

Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging course<br>This course will define terms related to equity, diversity and inclusion. It will also provide a survey of barriers to cultural competence and equity as well as strategies to overcome those barriers. This course is taught through an interdisciplinary lens. The course is SOCY 1613, and it will be offered in person and online during Fall 2021.<br>&nbsp;
