---
title: Tuition Freeze
date: 2021-03-10 15:14:52 -0600
expire_date: 2021-03-31 00:00:00 -0500
image: /uploads/kcc_default_post-placeholder.png
news_image_alt: KCC logo
article_lead: Tuition rate will hold steady for the upcoming school year.
video_content: false
video_link: 'https://youtu.be/4d2LkGjg5bM'
press_release: false
---
Kankakee Community College will hold its tuition rate steady for the upcoming school year.&nbsp;<br><br>The college tuition and fees are $165 per semester hour. This amount is comparable to other nearby community colleges, said Beth Nunley, KCC’s vice president for financial affairs.<br><br>“Giving residents access to affordable education is a priority,” said Michael Boyd, KCC president. “Many of our students and their families suffered personal and financial losses during the pandemic, and it is essential that KCC is here for our community members while they rebuild. We have strong programs that lead to family-sustaining jobs. KCC students learn high-demand skills and can take them to the local workforce.”<br><br>“When KCC graduates find career success it impacts their families for generations,” said Pat Martin, chairman of the KCC Board of Trustees. “It’s the chance to build strong communities.”<br><br>The cost for tuition and fees to attend KCC full-time (15 hours a semester) for one year will be approximately $4,950. Average annual tuition and fees at the top eight universities where KCC students transfer to is approximately $17,111, not including room and board.<br><br>“Students in need of financial help to pay for college are also encouraged to submit a FAFSA to see what kind of monetary assistance is available,” Nunley said. FAFSA is the Free Application for Federal Student Aid.<br><br>In 2019-20, 42% of KCC credit students received financial aid. The average amount received per student was $3,855.<br><br>KCC begins enrollment for summer 2021 this month and Fall 2021 registration begins in April. Students can receive more information at register.kcc.edu and new students can apply at apply.kcc.edu.<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;<br>Sidebar:&nbsp;<br>**Tuition and Fees&nbsp;<br>Nearby community colleges (Per credit hour)**<br>Prairie State College $174<br>Parkland College $171<br>Danville Area Community College $165<br>Heartland College $163<br>Joliet Junior College $148<br>Kankakee Community College $165<br>South Suburban College $170<br>&nbsp;<br>**Top 8 transfer universities of KCC students&nbsp;<br>(Per credit hour, based on 30 credit hours; does not include room and board.)**<br>Eastern Illinois University $412<br>Governors State University $421<br>Illinois State University $511<br>Northern Illinois University $479<br>Olivet Nazarene University $1,232<br>Southern Illinois University-Carbondale $503<br>University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign $562<br>Western Illinois University $444
